mind your decisions i'm presh talwalkar
the first term of an infinite series is
one
divided by five root four plus four root
five
the second term is one divided by six
root five
plus five root six the pattern
continues indefinitely what is the value
of this infinite series
i was suggested this problem by a
student in indonesia
pause the video if you'd like to give
this problem a try and when you're ready
keep watching to learn how to solve this
[Music]
problem
a general term in this series is 1
divided by n multiplied by the square
root of n
minus 1 plus n minus 1 multiplied by the
square root of
n we can simplify this fraction
with the classic trick of multiplying
the numerator and denominator by the
conjugate
the result will be a difference of
squares we'll take the square of the
first term
minus the square of the second term
this is the resulting fraction we can
then
factor the denominator by factoring the
quantity
n multiplied by n minus one
we then simplify the denominator we now
have a single term in the denominator
so we can divide through we end up with
the following result
it'll be equal to the square root of n
minus 1
over n minus 1 minus the square root of
n
over n we will use this formula to
simplify
each term in the series we'll apply this
formula
to the first term here n is equal to
five
we thus get the result of the square
root of four
over four minus the square root of five
over five
we apply the formula to the second term
here
n is equal to six
then we apply this formula to the third
term
and here n is equal to seven
now this pattern continues indefinitely
we'll simplify the result notice
we have a negative square root of 5 over
plus a square root of 5 over 5 and these
two terms will cancel
the following two terms will also cancel
and this pattern will continue
indefinitely
the only term that survives is the very
first term
this is reminiscent of a telescope that
retracts upon itself
for this reason this type of sum is
known as a telescoping sum
all of the terms vanish except the very
first term
this simplifies to be 2 over four which
is equal to one half
and that's our answer it's a pretty
radical and neat sum
thanks for making us one of the best
communities on youtube
see you next episode of mind your
decisions where we solve the world's
problems
one video at a time
you